README.md, before:

# MQM Scorecard

An Express.js and React.js translation grading application that follows the [Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM)](https://themqm.org) convention.

## Installation

### Server Requirements

- PostgreSQL 9.x
- Node.js 16.x

### Setup NPM and a PostgreSQL instance

- NPM (Node Package Manager) will be needed for installation. Please reference the [NPM documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) for setup.
- A PostgreSQL instance will be needed. Please reference the [PostgreSQL downloads](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) for installers for various platforms.

### Third Party Requirements

**MQM Scorecard requires a third party email provider to send emails**. The `EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `EMAIL_PASSWORD`, `EMAIL_PROVIDER`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY` environment variables exist for integration with a provider. 

MQM Scorecard currently supports integration with **Zoho** and **SendGrid**. For Zoho, `EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `EMAIL_PASSWORD`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER` will need to be configured. For SendGrid, `EMAIL_ADDRESS`,`EMAIL_PROVIDER`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY` will need to be configured.

### Environment Variables

The following environment variables will either need to be exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

```
APP_ENV=<development | production>
DATABASE_URL=<url for the database>
EMAIL_ADDRESS=<address from which emails will be sent>
EMAIL_PROVIDER=<Zoho | SendGrid>
EMAIL_PASSWORD=<password for hosted email account (used for Zoho only)>
EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY=<API key generated by email provider (used for SendGrid only)>
AUTH_SECRET=<64-bit CSPRNG secret>
```

### Build

```
npm ci
```


```
npm run build
```

### Database Configuration

Ensure that environment variables are either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

**WARNING: This command will destroy and then create all tables.**

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.

```
npm run db:configure
```

### Launch 

```
npm run start
```

## Local Development

For local development, you will want to set the environment variable *APP_ENV*=*development*. To run the application locally, express and react can be run in parallel by running the following commands in different tabs:

```
npm run dev:server
```

```
npm run dev:react
```

The database will still need to be configured as mentioned in the installation section. Please refer to that section for details.


## Scripts

## Configure database

Destroys and then creates all tables.

Ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.

```
npm run db:configure
```

## Set user role

Sets the role for a given user.

Ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.*

```
npm run db:set-user-role <username> <role id>

Valid role id: 1 (user) | 2 (admin) | 3 (superadmin)
```


## Severity Weights

- Netural: 0
- Minor: 1
- Major: 5
- Critical: 25

## Project JSON Output 

The JSON output for a project is structured as defined below: 

```
{
    projectName: string,
    key: {
        [key: string]: string        
    }, // Map of segment IDs to segment numbers
    errors: {
        segment: string,
        target: string,
        name: string,
        severity: string,
        issueReportId: string,
        issueId: string,
        note: string,
        highlighting: {
            startIndex: number,
            endIndex: number
        }
    }[],
    metric: {
        parent: string | null,
        name: string,
        description: string,
        notes: string,
        examples: string,
        issueId: string
    }[],
    apt: number, // Absolute Penalty Total
    segments: {
        source: string[],
        target: string[],
    }
}
```

### Example

```
{
  "projectName": "Testing-123",
  "key": {
    "57": "1",
    "58": "2",
    "59": "3",
  },
  "errors": [
    {
      "segment": "57",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "inconsistent use of terminology",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "4",
      "issueId": "term-inconsistency",
      "note": "||major; language register; R; 2",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 168,
        "endIndex": 172
      }
    },
    {
      "segment": "57",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "multiple terms in translation",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "5",
      "issueId": "multiple-translations-of-term",
      "note": "||in which; function words; G; 1",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 180,
        "endIndex": 187
      }
    },
    {
      "segment": "58",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "Terminology",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "6",
      "issueId": "terminology",
      "note": "||somebody had to doubt it; unidiomatic style; U; 2",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 14,
        "endIndex": 37
      }
    },
  ],
  "metric": [
    {
      "parent": null,
      "name": "Terminology",
      "description": "A term (domain-specific word) is translated with a term other than the one expected for the domain or otherwise specified.",
      "notes": "All errors specifically related to use of domain- or organization-specific terminology are included in this error and its children.\r\n\r\nDo not use this error if a text is simply mistranslated, i.e., if the translation would be a valid translation of the source but simply does not use the particular mandated terminology. For example, if a text translates [river] bank into Spanish as banco (a financial institution) instead of orilla (a river bank), this would be a mistranslation because banco would never be a valid term for the concept of a river bank. However, if a termbase specified that orilla should be used and the translation uses ribera instead, this would be a Terminology error because ribera is a valid term for the concept, but not the specified one.",
      "examples": "A French text translates English \"email\" as \"e-mail\" but terminology guidelines mandated that \"courriel\" be used.\n\nThe English musicological term dog is translated (literally) into German as Hund instead of as Schnarre, as specified in a terminology database.",
      "issueId": "terminology"
    },
    {
      "parent": "terminology",
      "name": "inconsistent use of terminology",
      "description": "A single concept is expressed with multiple terms.",
      "notes": "This error is used only to address inconsistent use of terminology in the target text. In cases where terminology is incorrect for the domain or termbase, wrong term or termbase should be used instead. If the inconsistent term use can be traced back to inconsist term use in the source text, the error type stays the same, but this special case should be annotated with an inconsistent source term root cause.",
      "examples": "A German source text uses one term for a component of a vehicle, but the target text uses “brake release lever”, “brake disengagement lever”, “manual brake release”, and “manual disengagement release” for this term in English.",
      "issueId": "term-inconsistency"
    },
    {
      "parent": "term-inconsistency",
      "name": "multiple terms in translation",
      "description": "A single source term is translated in multiple inconsistent ways.",
      "notes": "Applies to target text only since it refers to cases where one term has multiple translations. As with term-inconsistency, termbase or one of its children should be used instead if a termbase contains a specified term for a concept and the text does not use that particular term.",
      "examples": "A German source text uses one term for a component of a vehicle, but the target text uses “brake release lever”, “brake disengagement lever”, “manual brake release”, and “manual disengagement release” for this term in English.",
      "issueId": "multiple-translations-of-term"
    },
  ],
  "apt": 3,
  "segments": {
    "source": [
      "Foi no penúltimo domingo de Janeiro de 1645, quando o conde Peter van Heest conclamou o povo do Recife — a \"grande e florescente\" capital do Brasil holandês — a comparecer a uma grande festa na qual, garantiu, um cavalo iria voar. ",
      "Houve logo quem duvidasse, é claro. ",
      "Mas até os mais céticos devem ter hesitado antes de rir na cara do conde. ",
    ],
    "target": [
      " Count Peter van Heest, on the next to the last Sunday of January, 1645, summoned the people of Recife — the \"great and thriving\" capital of Dutch Brazil — to attend a major party in which he guaranteed that a horse was going to fly.",
      " Immediately, somebody had to doubt it, of course.",
      " However, even the most skeptical ones must have hesitated before laughing at the count.",
    ],
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Remove all files and dependencies for frontend react app

README.md, after:

# MQM Scorecard API

This repository contains a Node.js HTTP REST API and PostgreSQL schemas developed to support the [MQM Scorecard application](https://github.com/BYU-TRG-Team/mqm-scorecard).

## Installation

### Server Requirements

- PostgreSQL 9.x
- Node.js 16.x

### Setup NPM and a PostgreSQL instance

- NPM (Node Package Manager) will be needed for installation. Please reference the [NPM documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) for setup.
- A PostgreSQL instance will be needed. Please reference the [PostgreSQL downloads](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) for installers for various platforms.

### Third Party Requirements

**MQM Scorecard requires a third party email provider to send emails**. The `EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `EMAIL_PASSWORD`, `EMAIL_PROVIDER`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY` environment variables exist for integration with a provider. 

MQM Scorecard currently supports integration with **Zoho** and **SendGrid**. For Zoho, `EMAIL_ADDRESS`, `EMAIL_PASSWORD`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER` will need to be configured. For SendGrid, `EMAIL_ADDRESS`,`EMAIL_PROVIDER`, and `EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY` will need to be configured.

### Environment Variables

The following environment variables will either need to be exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

```
APP_ENV=<development | production>
DATABASE_URL=<url for the database>
EMAIL_ADDRESS=<address from which emails will be sent>
EMAIL_PROVIDER=<Zoho | SendGrid>
EMAIL_PASSWORD=<password for hosted email account (used for Zoho only)>
EMAIL_PROVIDER_API_KEY=<API key generated by email provider (used for SendGrid only)>
AUTH_SECRET=<64-bit CSPRNG secret>
```

### Build

```
npm ci
```


```
npm run build
```

### Database Configuration

Ensure that environment variables are either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

**WARNING: This command will destroy and then create all tables.**

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.

```
npm run db:configure
```

### Launch 

```
npm run start
```

## Scripts

## Configure database

Destroys and then creates all tables.

Ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.

```
npm run db:configure
```

## Set user role

Sets the role for a given user.

Ensure that the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is either exported in the shell context or defined in a `.env` file in the repo root. 

NOTE: This step makes used of NPM packages installed by running `npm ci`.*

```
npm run db:set-user-role <username> <role id>

Valid role id: 1 (user) | 2 (admin) | 3 (superadmin)
```


## Severity Weights

- Netural: 0
- Minor: 1
- Major: 5
- Critical: 25

## Project JSON Output 

The JSON output for a project is structured as defined below: 

```
{
    projectName: string,
    key: {
        [key: string]: string        
    }, // Map of segment IDs to segment numbers
    errors: {
        segment: string,
        target: string,
        name: string,
        severity: string,
        issueReportId: string,
        issueId: string,
        note: string,
        highlighting: {
            startIndex: number,
            endIndex: number
        }
    }[],
    metric: {
        parent: string | null,
        name: string,
        description: string,
        notes: string,
        examples: string,
        issueId: string
    }[],
    apt: number, // Absolute Penalty Total
    segments: {
        source: string[],
        target: string[],
    }
}
```

### Example

```
{
  "projectName": "Testing-123",
  "key": {
    "57": "1",
    "58": "2",
    "59": "3",
  },
  "errors": [
    {
      "segment": "57",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "inconsistent use of terminology",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "4",
      "issueId": "term-inconsistency",
      "note": "||major; language register; R; 2",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 168,
        "endIndex": 172
      }
    },
    {
      "segment": "57",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "multiple terms in translation",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "5",
      "issueId": "multiple-translations-of-term",
      "note": "||in which; function words; G; 1",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 180,
        "endIndex": 187
      }
    },
    {
      "segment": "58",
      "target": "target",
      "name": "Terminology",
      "severity": "minor",
      "issueReportId": "6",
      "issueId": "terminology",
      "note": "||somebody had to doubt it; unidiomatic style; U; 2",
      "highlighting": {
        "startIndex": 14,
        "endIndex": 37
      }
    },
  ],
  "metric": [
    {
      "parent": null,
      "name": "Terminology",
      "description": "A term (domain-specific word) is translated with a term other than the one expected for the domain or otherwise specified.",
      "notes": "All errors specifically related to use of domain- or organization-specific terminology are included in this error and its children.\r\n\r\nDo not use this error if a text is simply mistranslated, i.e., if the translation would be a valid translation of the source but simply does not use the particular mandated terminology. For example, if a text translates [river] bank into Spanish as banco (a financial institution) instead of orilla (a river bank), this would be a mistranslation because banco would never be a valid term for the concept of a river bank. However, if a termbase specified that orilla should be used and the translation uses ribera instead, this would be a Terminology error because ribera is a valid term for the concept, but not the specified one.",
      "examples": "A French text translates English \"email\" as \"e-mail\" but terminology guidelines mandated that \"courriel\" be used.\n\nThe English musicological term dog is translated (literally) into German as Hund instead of as Schnarre, as specified in a terminology database.",
      "issueId": "terminology"
    },
    {
      "parent": "terminology",
      "name": "inconsistent use of terminology",
      "description": "A single concept is expressed with multiple terms.",
      "notes": "This error is used only to address inconsistent use of terminology in the target text. In cases where terminology is incorrect for the domain or termbase, wrong term or termbase should be used instead. If the inconsistent term use can be traced back to inconsist term use in the source text, the error type stays the same, but this special case should be annotated with an inconsistent source term root cause.",
      "examples": "A German source text uses one term for a component of a vehicle, but the target text uses “brake release lever”, “brake disengagement lever”, “manual brake release”, and “manual disengagement release” for this term in English.",
      "issueId": "term-inconsistency"
    },
    {
      "parent": "term-inconsistency",
      "name": "multiple terms in translation",
      "description": "A single source term is translated in multiple inconsistent ways.",
      "notes": "Applies to target text only since it refers to cases where one term has multiple translations. As with term-inconsistency, termbase or one of its children should be used instead if a termbase contains a specified term for a concept and the text does not use that particular term.",
      "examples": "A German source text uses one term for a component of a vehicle, but the target text uses “brake release lever”, “brake disengagement lever”, “manual brake release”, and “manual disengagement release” for this term in English.",
      "issueId": "multiple-translations-of-term"
    },
  ],
  "apt": 3,
  "segments": {
    "source": [
      "Foi no penúltimo domingo de Janeiro de 1645, quando o conde Peter van Heest conclamou o povo do Recife — a \"grande e florescente\" capital do Brasil holandês — a comparecer a uma grande festa na qual, garantiu, um cavalo iria voar. ",
      "Houve logo quem duvidasse, é claro. ",
      "Mas até os mais céticos devem ter hesitado antes de rir na cara do conde. ",
    ],
    "target": [
      " Count Peter van Heest, on the next to the last Sunday of January, 1645, summoned the people of Recife — the \"great and thriving\" capital of Dutch Brazil — to attend a major party in which he guaranteed that a horse was going to fly.",
      " Immediately, somebody had to doubt it, of course.",
      " However, even the most skeptical ones must have hesitated before laughing at the count.",
    ],
  }
}
```
